Hey my name is Peter Sanagan I own Sanagan's meat
locker a couple butcher shops in Toronto focusing
on all Ontario meats and poultry so I came to
this business as a as a chef originally so it's
really important to me to be able to provide cuts
that I would have used in restaurants before so
not just trimmed appropriately but also making
sure that you know it's going to look nice and
most importantly tastes really nice
on the plate right so the freshness
is really important it's also important to me
to to support local family farms in
Ontario that's a big piece of me, wherever
you are I think it's really important to be
supporting the farmers around you so
I've developed relationships over the
years with a variety, a network really,
of great farmers who contribute to
um to really what we do here and what we sell
and from from what I I've been doing this for
12 years now and you really notice a really
positive reaction from our clientele from
being in the store having a great experience
with our service team to having
their dinner at the end of the night and then letting us know about, it's a really um
I mean you talk about farm to table
but it's a really fantastic positive
seamless experience and as a butcher I feel that's a really important thing like
at the end of the day a lot of people still
have meat as the centerpiece of their meals
and it's important to me to make sure you know
where your meat is coming from it's cut well
it's cooked well and it eats well and it you know
tastes fantastic so that's really big that that's
kind of my my big philosophy with with butchery
so as a chef I was used to having local farmers
bring in a lot of my protein a lot of proteins
in the into the the restaurants and break them
down and and serving them in the restaurants
was was fantastic when I opened the butcher shop
the main idea was how can we get a lot of these
farmers and their products to to the public
and surprisingly for a city as big as
Toronto there wasn't as many shops doing that
at the time this is back in 2009 so you know i
already had a few friends that were doing that
like farmers that were raising animals so through
them I just kind of met more and more and more and
you know at the end of the day it's not
that hard to go and talk to farmers find out how
they're raising them or where they're doing it,
what they're feeding them, what breeds they're
raising, all those different questions can
be answered and then that way for myself
and my my team we can share that information to
the customers who many of them want to know
that stuff, so you know all my stuff comes
from like I mentioned family farms and what
I mean by that is like the people who are actually
it's not just some like middle people that don't
know where
the animals are from or anything like that so
that's an important piece of the puzzle to me um
so what advice I give like someone wanting to get
in the industry whether as a cook or as a butcher
or any kind of food related thing is number one
don't forget your passion for it that's a
big thing if you have passion for what you do
it will help drive you through thick and thin and
there's a lot of thick there's a lot of challenges
in the world of of food both retail and
hospitality but remember your passion for it
then number two just just getting into
the habit of, I know this sounds
maybe old school or whatnot but listen, ask
the right questions, pay attention and and do what
you're directed to do and that kind of head down
work mentality will will get you really far
there's a lot of like there's a lot of places
where if you have the the I mean you can kind
of wrap it up in this like phrase of work ethic if
you have a strong work ethic but what that means
to some people is different than others all
I think is if we have someone new coming
in here and they want to learn how to butcher you
come in you'll get direction, follow the direction
and work on your discipline and your
speed and your efficiency and your organization
and then you wake up the next day you do it again
you do the next day next week next month and
eventually after a few years it'll be muscle
memory it'll be yeah a lot of things
come second nature which allows you to then make
the next step and you keep going and keep going